OBSDOCS-447: improve clarity about limitations when creating alerting rules in user workload monitoring (#67324)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-about-creating-alerting-rules-for-user-defined-projects.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/managing-alerts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-creating-alerting-rules-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= About creating alerting rules for user-defined projects

If you create alerting rules for a user-defined project, consider the following key behaviors and important limitations when you define the new rules:

* A user-defined alerting rule can include metrics exposed by its own project in addition to the default metrics from core platform monitoring. 
You cannot include metrics from another user-defined project.
+
For example, an alerting rule for the `ns1` user-defined project can use metrics exposed by the `ns1` project in addition to core platform metrics, such as CPU and memory metrics.
However, the rule cannot include metrics from a different `ns2` user-defined project.

> * To reduce latency and to minimize the load on core platform monitoring components, you can add the `openshift.io/prometheus-rule-evaluation-scope: leaf-prometheus` label to a rule to force only the Prometheus instance deployed in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project to evaluate the alerting rule instead of the Thanos Ruler instance.

Author: Thanks! I agree it's better as two sentences.

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
If an alerting rule has this label, your alerting rule can use only those metrics exposed by your user-defined project.

> Alerting rules you create based on default platform metrics might not fire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alerting rules you create based on default platform metrics might not start.
```

As per IBMSG, see "fire": https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#f

Author: Changed to `trigger`, although the IBM Style entry is for `fire up`, not `fire`. For alerts, I think that `trigger` is more accurate than `start` as a substitute here.

> // Module included in the following assemblies:

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove the last bullet `Optimize alert routing` from `Optimizing alerting for user-defined projects`.

Author: Good catch! Removed.

//
// * monitoring/managing-alerts.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="about-creating-alerting-rules-for-user-defined-projects_{context}"]
= About creating alerting rules for user-defined projects

If you create alerting rules for a user-defined project, consider the following key behaviors and important limitations when you define the new rules:

> * You can only create new alerting rules for user-defined projects.

Reviewer 2: I think we can omit this paragraph as it can be confusing, because we can define alerting rules to platform monitoring using `AlertingRule` (as explained in `Managing alerting rules for core platform monitoring`)

Author: Deleted the paragraph.

You cannot create new alerting rules for core {product-title} monitoring projects.
Core platform monitoring by default provides a set of alerting rules for these projects.

* A user-defined alerting rule can include metrics exposed by its own project in addition to the default metrics from core platform monitoring. 
You cannot include metrics from another user-defined project.
+
For example, an alerting rule for the `ns1` user-defined project can use metrics exposed by the `ns1` project in addition to core platform metrics, such as CPU and memory metrics.
However, the rule cannot include metrics from a different `ns2` user-defined project.

> * To reduce latency and to minimize the load on core platform monitoring components, you can add the `openshift.io/prometheus-rule-evaluation-scope: leaf-prometheus` label to a rule to force only the Prometheus instance deployed in the user-defined project to evaluate the alerting rule instead of the Thanos Ruler instance used by default platform monitoring.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To reduce latency and to minimize the load on core platform monitoring components, you can add the `openshift.io/prometheus-rule-evaluation-scope: leaf-prometheus` label to a rule to force only the Prometheus instance deployed in the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` project to evaluate the alerting rule instead of the Thanos Ruler instance.
```

Author: changed
